README.md, before:

# Volume Manager

**Work in progress**

Control each app's volume independently. [Shizuku](https://shizuku.rikka.app/) is used to access privileged APIs.

![Screenshot](screenshot.png)

## Compare with [SoundMaster from ShizuTools](https://github.com/legendsayantan/ShizuTools/wiki/SoundMaster)

This app uses hidden API to directly change each audio stream's volume.

SoundMaster uses MediaProjection API to record audio from each app and apply post-effects.

|                                | Volume Master  | SoundMaster    |
| ------------------------------ | -------------- | -------------- |
| Control volume of each app     | ✅              | ✅              |
| Set output device for each app | ❌ <sup>1</sup> | ✅              |
| Change left-right balance      | ❌ <sup>2</sup> | ✅              |
| Equalizer (EQ)                 | ❌              | ✅              |
| Control protected apps         | ✅              | ❌ <sup>3</sup> |
| Zero latency added             | ✅              | ❌              |

<sup>1</sup>: There are APIs to do that, but not implemented in this app

<sup>2</sup>: There are other APIs to do that, but not implemented in this app

<sup>3</sup>: Can be worked around by patching the app

## How does it work

1. Use [`AudioManager#getActivePlaybackConfigurations()`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/AudioManager#getActivePlaybackConfigurations()) to get list of [`AudioPlaybackConfiguration`](https://cs.android.com/android/platform/superproject/main/+/main:frameworks/base/media/java/android/media/AudioPlaybackConfiguration.java;drc=e282cc572ef848b1cb8d622c2c4939aac37c3b27).

    Each `AudioPlaybackConfiguration` represents a audio player, like [`AudioTrack`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/AudioTrack) and [`MediaPlayer`](https://developer.android.com/media/platform/mediaplayer)
2. Use [`ActivityManager#getRunningAppProcesses()`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/ActivityManager#getRunningAppProcesses()) and [`PackageManager#getApplicationInfo()`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/pm/PackageManager#getApplicationInfo(java.lang.String,%20android.content.pm.PackageManager.ApplicationInfoFlags)) to map and group `AudioPlaybackConfiguration#getClientPid()` to apps
3. Use `AudioPlaybackConfiguration#getPlayerProxy()` and [`IPlayer.setVolume()`](https://cs.android.com/android/platform/superproject/main/+/main:frameworks/av/media/libaudioclient/aidl/android/media/IPlayer.aidl;l=29;drc=75e48fea431b1de2bf1715eb5c22ba4c794200bd) to update the internal volume multiplier
4. Use [`AudioManager#registerAudioPlaybackCallback()`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/AudioManager?hl=en#registerAudioPlaybackCallback(android.media.AudioManager.AudioPlaybackCallback,%20android.os.Handler)) to listen for new `AudioPlaybackConfiguration`s and apply current volume to them.

## TODOs

- [ ] Run in background: currently this app needs to be in foreground to apply volume to new apps and/or streams.
- [ ] Integrate with volume overlay (volume button)

## Note

This app uses the same API as MIUI's "Adjust media sound in multiple apps". Because this API can only setting volume, not reading, the volume set by one app will not be reflected in the other one.

Commit message:

Trigger popup view on volume button press
fixes #1

README.md, after:

# Volume Manager

**Work in progress**

Control each app's volume independently. [Shizuku](https://shizuku.rikka.app/) is used to access privileged APIs.

![Screenshot](screenshot.png)

## Usage

1. Install and enable [Shizuku](https://shizuku.rikka.app/)
2. Launch Volume Manager and request Shizuku permission
3. It should automatically enable its accessibility service
4. You can change volume either from
   1. The main interface
   2. Press any volume button and a popup should appear, completely replace the default volume popup
   3. Enable accessibility button and click the button

## Compare with [SoundMaster from ShizuTools](https://github.com/legendsayantan/ShizuTools/wiki/SoundMaster)

This app uses hidden API to directly change each audio stream's volume.

SoundMaster uses MediaProjection API to record audio from each app and apply post-effects.

|                                | Volume Master  | SoundMaster    |
| ------------------------------ | -------------- | -------------- |
| Control volume of each app     | ✅              | ✅              |
| Set output device for each app | ❌ <sup>1</sup> | ✅              |
| Change left-right balance      | ❌ <sup>2</sup> | ✅              |
| Equalizer (EQ)                 | ❌              | ✅              |
| Control protected apps         | ✅              | ❌ <sup>3</sup> |
| Zero latency added             | ✅              | ❌              |

<sup>1</sup>: There are APIs to do that, but not implemented in this app

<sup>2</sup>: There are other APIs to do that, but not implemented in this app

<sup>3</sup>: Can be worked around by patching the app

## How does it work

1. Use [`AudioManager#getActivePlaybackConfigurations()`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/AudioManager#getActivePlaybackConfigurations()) to get list of [`AudioPlaybackConfiguration`](https://cs.android.com/android/platform/superproject/main/+/main:frameworks/base/media/java/android/media/AudioPlaybackConfiguration.java;drc=e282cc572ef848b1cb8d622c2c4939aac37c3b27).

    Each `AudioPlaybackConfiguration` represents a audio player, like [`AudioTrack`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/AudioTrack) and [`MediaPlayer`](https://developer.android.com/media/platform/mediaplayer)
2. Use [`ActivityManager#getRunningAppProcesses()`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/ActivityManager#getRunningAppProcesses()) and [`PackageManager#getApplicationInfo()`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/pm/PackageManager#getApplicationInfo(java.lang.String,%20android.content.pm.PackageManager.ApplicationInfoFlags)) to map and group `AudioPlaybackConfiguration#getClientPid()` to apps
3. Use `AudioPlaybackConfiguration#getPlayerProxy()` and [`IPlayer.setVolume()`](https://cs.android.com/android/platform/superproject/main/+/main:frameworks/av/media/libaudioclient/aidl/android/media/IPlayer.aidl;l=29;drc=75e48fea431b1de2bf1715eb5c22ba4c794200bd) to update the internal volume multiplier
4. Use [`AudioManager#registerAudioPlaybackCallback()`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/AudioManager?hl=en#registerAudioPlaybackCallback(android.media.AudioManager.AudioPlaybackCallback,%20android.os.Handler)) to listen for new `AudioPlaybackConfiguration`s and apply current volume to them.

## Note

This app uses the same API as MIUI's "Adjust media sound in multiple apps". Because this API can only setting volume, not reading, the volume set by one app will not be reflected in the other one.
